# The Alsace consultation controversy
[text](https://actu.fr/bourgogne-franche-comte/lons-le-saunier_39300/jura-une-plateforme-virtuelle-pour-developper-la-democratie-participative-a-lons-le-saunier_46142815.html)


# One client
[text](https://capetown.govocal.com/en-GB/projects/open-innovation-2)


# I also have a financial analysis that is publicly available ^^' I believe this is a report for a client
the website from which it's generated is 
[text](https://wietsedemo.govocal.com) › file › content

How St. Louis Should Spend the Rams Settlement Fund MoneyAn historically rare opportunity of significant importance is staring the City of St. Louis in the face, and it is imperative that the stewards of the city make the most of their shot. The opportunity in question is the city’s share of the $250 million Ram’s Settlement Fund. In this article, I am going to make the case for why investing this money into a Revolving Loan Fund will make the biggest impact and result in the greatest long-term benefit for the city and its residents. And given that this is the Show-Me State, I will do so by showing you where this has been done before and how it has worked.But first, a bit of context. While $250M is a substantial sum of money, compared to the city’s infrastructure and other needs, it is only an initial downpayment. And unfortunately, even a casual glance at the city’s finances makes clear that the city does not have the funds necessary to foot the entire bill. Even bringing only our street infrastructure into good standing city-wide will cost more than 2x the amount of the Settlement Fund. As a result, a primary goal of using these funds should be to multiply them and to recycle them, using them repeatedly to fund additional improvements to the city. In this way, rather than getting a one-time $250 million benefit, the city can generate an impact that stretches into the billions of dollars.Achieving a multi-billion-dollar impact from a $250M capital fund is not an exaggeration. It can be done through a combination of three primary tools of the Revolving Loan Fund:
	•	Providing gap loan financing to pivotal redevelopment projects in the city.
	•	Serving as substitute collateral to undergird private bank loans for distressed neighborhoods.
	•	Combine with Tax Increment Financing to reduce interest expense on TIF projects, thereby reducing financial impact of using tax incentives to schools and the city.
Next, I want to demonstrate how each of these three tools have been implemented elsewhere in the U.S. and then provide an example of the economic impact they can have for the city.
Tool #1 – Gap Loan FinancingCincinnati
In 2003, the City of Cincinnati established the Cincinnati City Center Development Corporation (3CDC) and put it in charge of the Cincinnati Equity Funds (CEF), which are loan vehicles that provide patient capital for investment into strategically important real estate projects. These revolving loan funds, comprised of an initial investment of $199 million have been utilized to make 198 loans, totaling $640 million of investment by the CEF and resulted in over $1.7 billion in development projects in Cincinnati.
Importantly, of the $199 million, all of it came from contributions from more than a dozen major Cincinnati-based corporations. Why is this important? Because with proper coordination, St. Louis could create a fund like the CEF, and use the promise of its $250M contribution and the prospect of a return on their investment to entice the deployment of additional capital from major corporations and banks in St. Louis. For sake of example, let’s say that St. Louis commits $100M of the Settlement Fund for this purpose and obtains matching contributions from St. Louis companies of an additional $100M.If we obtain similar results as Cincinnati, over the next 20 years, $1.7 billion of taxable new development (assuming a 50/50 split between residential and commercial) distributed equally across the time period would yield $409 million just in new property tax revenue over that period. Over half of that amount would directly benefit the school district.
Assumes average property tax rate of 9%.
20-Year Scorecard
Settlement Fund Investment:		$100MAdditional Capital Attracted:		$100MPrivate Investment:			$1.7BNew Tax Revenue:			$400M
Over 20 years, then, the first $100 million would result in a total investment impact to the city of $2.3 billion, excluding any interest proceeds received from making the loans.
Tool #2 – Collateral GuaranteesDetroit
In 2008, the Great Recession greatly reduced home values and the number of home sales in Detroit, effectively turning the city into a cash-based real estate market (a predicament currently facing many north city neighborhoods). As a result, many potential homebuyers could not get a mortgage because the appraiser could not find a similar home nearby with a large enough comparable sales price.In 2016, Detroit Home Mortgage (DHM) was launched as a collaborative effort between the city and local partners. A similar program modeled after DHM was launched in St. Louis in 2019, called the Gateway Neighborhood Fund. The way the program works is that banking partners provide a second mortgage that extends beyond the appraised value of a home, but they are only able to do so because there is a pool of funds set aside to offset any losses the fund may incur. This pool of funds acts as a secondary source of collateral, or a collateral guarantee.Here is a brief example of how it works:Home Purchase Price:	$55,000Renovation Cost:	$95,000Total Cost:		$160,000Appraisal/Loan Value (post renovation):	$88,00020% Downpayment:			$32,000Appraisal Gap:				$40,000Due to this appraisal gap, would-be home owners must either come up with the additional down payment, or be unable to secure a mortgage, rendering them unable to buy and renovate the home.While DHM resolves this problem by providing a second loan for the amount of the appraisal gap, however, there are two interlinked challenges the program must overcome to work successfully. First, it requires the homeowners to take a total loan amount that exceeds the value of the home, immediately putting them underwater. The second, because of the first problem, it only works to the extent that there is a loan pool available to repay the appraisal gap loans if any homeowners default. Without this protection, the banks legally cannot enter into these loan agreements. But in St. Louis, there is not a great source of capital to fund this collateral pool, which greatly limits the scope and ability of the program. Raising property values to bring homeowners back above water on their loans requires a sufficient number of loans to reach critical mass and restore the lending market.By setting aside $50M of the Settlement Fund for Collateral Guarantees through the Loan Fund, using the above example, St. Louis could support the redevelopment of 1,250 homes in distressed neighborhoods across the city. Again, using the example, that would mean $118.75 million in new renovation dollars flowing into the neighborhoods, which would generate approximately $1 million in new property tax revenues per year. The RLF would also receive a small fee in return for the collateral guarantee.However, in most cases, the money does not actually get spent out of the Collateral Fund, as it is only needed in the event of a default. That means the entire time it is working by acting as a collateral guarantee, it can also be invested into a safe interest-bearing product, such as U.S. Treasury Bonds, currently yielding over 5% annually, which is an additional $2.5 Million in interest per year. In addition, the hope is that as the lending market returns to a neighborhood, the funds can be withdrawn, as properties are refinanced, and the appraisal gap is filled by increased market values. This would allow for further recycling of the initial $50M investment. (I assume 2 full cycles in my estimates below). 
To show you how effective this program could be for St. Louis, below, are two maps of Detroit. The first is from 2015 prior to the start of the Detroit Home Mortgage program. The second is from 2021, six years later. Each dot on the map represents a high value (or mortgageable) home sale.


Assuming that the full $50M can be recycled once over 20 years, this implies that 2,500 homes could be renovated in that timespan.20-Year Scorecard
Settlement Fund Investment:		$50MHomes renovated:			2,500Renovation Investment:			$237.5MNew Property Taxes:			$30MInterest Received @5% interest:		$50MFees Received:				$2.5M

Tool #3 – TIF Loan PoolDallasTax Increment Financing has been an instrumental tool that has enabled countless projects to move forward in St. Louis and beyond. Major projects such as Cortex would have been impossible without TIF support. However, one of the biggest costs of using TIF is the interest expense that is generated over the 23-year life of notes from individual projects. In my experience, a TIF will pay between 40-50% of its revenues to covering interest expenses over the life of the project.But it does not have to be this way. The City of Dallas, TX has blazed a path in which TIF projects are paid out of a pool of funds that are generated by all collective properties within a TIF District. In short, this allows a developer to receive the amount expected from their TIF agreement over the course of 5-7 years instead of 23 years. The developer still receives the same amount, but the TIF (and ultimately the taxing entities) save on 15+ years of fewer interest expense payments.In the case with the Ram’s Settlement Fund, the City could create a joint TIF pool with $100 Million. By creating larger TIF Districts, such as was done for Cortex, the Fund could lend to new TIF projects in return for receiving the stream of payments from the TIF. This would allow the Revolving Loan Fund to receive the interest expense that is currently going to outside financial institutions. However, by providing funds to developers sooner, it could also increase the present value of the cash flow, thus reducing the overall amount of TIF assistance required.The math of this tool is admittedly a bit more complex, but with some basic assumptions that each TIF financing package represents 15% of total project costs, and that this mechanism would allow the city to collect 40% of the revenues that are currently being paid out in interest expense, we arrive at total savings of $40 million + total investment of over $660 Million.20-Year Scorecard
Settlement Fund Investment:		$100MInterest Received/Saved:		$40MNew Investment:			$660M
Summary
For those keeping track of the scorecards, between these three tools, investing the $250 Million Settlement Fund proceeds into a new Revolving Loan Fund could yield a total investment of over $3.3 billion over the course of 20 years.



